[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: So, now that we see
that we're in a function, we know that's
a new unit of scope, so we're gonna sort
of recursively descend into that function,
and we're gonna compile
the contents of that function.
It's not a terribly interesting
function obviously, at this point, but
we're gonna look for declarations.
Where is the next declaration
that it's gonna find?
>> Kyle Simpson: Tell me line numbers.
>> Speaker 2: Four.
>> Kyle Simpson: Line four it's gonna
find a variable declaration for foo.
Now what scope is it in?
>> Speaker 2: The bar.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's the scope of bar, so
it's gonna say hey scope of bar I
have a new declaration to declare.
His identifier name is foo, so
we're starting to have this conversation.
This is the compiler having a conversation
with Scope portion of engine,
the Scope manager.
Okay, do I have any more declarations
in my current Scope of bar?
No, okay,
we're done with the function bar.
We've compiled the function bar.
Let's move on.
We're back to our global sub, so we popped
ourselves back out to the global Scope.
Where's the next declaration that we find?
>> Speaker 2: Seven.
>> Kyle Simpson: Line seven,
we find a function called baz.
Okay, let's declare a global Scope,
I've got a declaration for
an identifier called baz.
He happens to be a function declaration.
Go ahead and add him to your
declaration list for the global Scope.
Now let's recursively descend into
that function baz and compile him.
Where's the next declaration that I find?
>> Speaker 2: Our unit?
>> Kyle Simpson: See,
there's a tricky little one,
not as many people will catch that.
There is a declaration,
an implicit one, because we have
a named parameter called foo.
There's a name parameter and
that name parameter will be
treated like a local variable.
It's kinda like there was
a var foo right here.
So we can assign to that variable.
We can read the initial value that
might have been passed into it out.
We can treat it in all other ways
like it's a regular local variable.
So there's a declaration
that we need to declare.
Which scope are we in?
>> Speaker 2: baz.
>> Kyle Simpson: The scope of baz,
so hey baz,
hey scope of baz, I've got a declaration
for a variable and he's called foo,
I need you to register him there.
The Scope says, okay great, we're done.
So we continue on with that function,
do we see any more
declarations in that function?
The answer is no,
we don't see anymore declarations.
We're now done compiling our program for
the purposes of scope resolution, okay?
Obviously there was a whole
bunch other compiling that
happened that we just skipped over.
But we're done compiling our code for
the purposes of Scope resolution.
Now it's a couple of
microseconds later and
you don't see in this code somewhere
where they're being executed.
But let's assume that this code
is being executed somewhere.
Let's assume that somewhere else in
our program, bar is gonna get called,
baz is gonna get called.
Let's execute this
particular line of code.
We're a couple of microseconds later and
let's execute this whole line of code.
So how is line one going to be executed?
And the first thing you need to understand
is there's no more var anymore because we
handled that in the compilation phase so
he doesn't exist in the execution phase.
What's left of line one then?
The foo equals var part,
the second operation.
That's what's left for
our execution phase.
The foo equals var part.
The var part is not left for
our execution phase, it doesn't exist.
If you do var, foo), var, foo,
var, foo a hundred times in a row,
guess what happens to the other
99 of them after the first one.
They're ignored, because they dont
actually exist during the execution phase.
A lot of people think, well if I
encounter a var halfway through program
at that moment it's gonna create a whole
new variable out of thin air, and
that's not true.
Because that was all handled during
the compilation phase ahead of time.
This will all flow into our
discussions of hoisting and
things like that when we come
back to those later this morning.
Okay, so let's execute line one, and
here's where I need to introduce to
you some new compiler terminology.
The terminology I'm gonna introduce
is the idea of an LHS and in RHS.
LHS stands for left-hand side.
Anybody have a guess for
what RHS stands for?
You guys are smart and
everybody's had their coffee.
Everybody's well awake.
LHS stands for left-hand side.
RHS stands for right-hand side, of what?
That's the important question,
of an assignment.
In our language,
the assignment is the equals operator.
So, what's on my left hand
side of the equals operator?
>> Speaker 2: Variable name.
>> Kyle Simpson: The variable name foo.
So foo is said to be an LHS reference.
Okay, all right, don't get scared
about our compiler terminology.
I promise you, it's not gonna be
as hard as it may seem at first.
Foo is our LHS reference, okay?
What's the RHS?
>> Speaker 2: The value of the string.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's the immediate
value of the string value.
So, it's not a reference.
So, for the purposes of the Scope, we
don't need to worry about RHSs here, but
there is an LHS and RHS.
Now, the terms come from the
transliterative term left-hand side and
right-hand side.
Come from the initial looking
at this equal sign and
saying there's a left and a right.
But there are other ways for assignments
to occur, which don't have an equal sign.
And there's still an LHS and
an RHS even though we don't see a visible
left-hand side and a right-hand side.
So you do need to actually broaden
your understanding of LHS and
RHS from their transliterative Left-hand
side, right-hand side, meaning to the LHS
is the target and
the RHS is the source, okay.
The source of our assignment,
the source value, is the right-hand side,
this immediate value.
The target is where we're gonna put it,
foo, okay.
And there are other places, like when you
pass in a variable to a function call,
it's not obvious that there's
an equal sign happening there, but
there's still an assignment
that's occurring.
And there's a source and
there's a target, okay?
And it's important to keep LHS and
RHS distinct in your mind.
I'm gonna drill that into you so if it
feels weird, I promise there's a reason
why, because they actually behave
differently with respect to Scope.
So it's really important.
Do we have a question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
we have an online question.
Can I clarify what exactly is a definition
when I'm looking at that code?
>> Kyle Simpson: Definition, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Not sure where
the terminology definition is coming from,
the more common terminology
would be declaration.
But maybe somebody in the chat could
expand upon what they mean by definition.
>> Speaker 2: See what he says here.
>> Kyle Simpson: There's a couple of
different ways that I can interpret that,
so rather than assuming I know,
let's see if I can get some clarification.
All right, so we've executed, or
we've started to execute line one.
The first question that we need to
then ask is, when I have an LHS
that is a reference to a variable, I need
to ask where that variable exists, so
I need to ask a question
of my scope manager.
And that question that I'm going
to ask is essentially, hey, Scope,
my current Scope,
which happens to be the global Scope.
Hey global Scope,
I have an LHS reference for
a variable called foo,
have you ever heard of him?
What is the Scope manager
gonna respond to us?
Yes, I've heard of him.
It is the variable foo.
We're nearly at the right
inside right now,
we're just dealing with
the LHS side of it.
We're asking our Scope manager for
a reference to the variable
that we want to assign to.
We may not have found it
in our current Scope.
We might have had to go elsewhere,
which we'll see in a little bit.
But right now we found it immediately.
So the answer to that initial question,
hey scope, hey Global Scope,
I've got an LHS reference for
a variable called foo, ever heard of him?
The answer is yes, I've heard of him,
because you've declared him
just a couple microseconds ago.
Is everybody with me on that?
So I'm gonna give you a reference back
to the variable that you declared,
and I'm gonna allow you
to perform the operation.
Now, if the right-hand side was more
complicated than just an immediate value,
if there was a variable there,
then we would need to do another lookup.
We'd need to say hey global Scope,
I've got a variable called bar, for
instance or something.
But we don't, we don't need to do anymore
lookups because we did our lookup for
the variable foo.
Did we get a clarification
Will on the question you have?
>> Speaker 2: He's not responded yet.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Definition I guess, okay,
got it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Function definition?
So function definition,
again the more common way to say that,
hopefully I'm answering
your question there online.
The more common way to say
that is function declaration
rather than function definition.
But a function declaration is where we see
the function keyword followed by a name
followed by a block of code.
So that's a function declaration.
Now we'll clarify there's a different
way of making functions and
that's called function expressions and
we'll clarify that in a few slides.
But a function declaration as we see it is
exactly what you see here where you see
the function key word with
a name after it like that.
An argument list and a body.
So hopefully that answered
the question that was being asked,
if not clarify again.
Okay, so
we don't need to do any lookups for
the right hand side because
we have an immediate value.
We've already looked up the left hand
side, so we know where it's going.
So we can just perform that operation.
We can just take the value,
copy it directly into the location.
And we're done executing line one.
Everybody pat yourselves on the back.
You've just done your first
JavaScript engine operation.